---
title: "[RL Research] Multi Reward for Robot Arm Manipluation Task"
tags: Reinforcement-Learning 
published: false
comment: true
---

## Motivation

One of the most popular applications of reinforcement learning is done for robot arm manipulation tasks. Motion planning of a robot arm can be done by traditional motion planning methods such as classical line geometry approach, but **reinforcement learning** is considered as a robust solution that can be applied to wide variety of new or dynamic environments. 

The bane of reinforcement learning, however, is that we have to design the reward in a careful manner. A simple binary reward, only given when the episode succeeds the mission, is often too sparse and contains insufficient information for a successful training. Many papers such as Hindsight Experience Replay (HER), which allows the network to learn also from the failed attempts, was proposed as an effective solution to tackle this problem of sparse rewards. However, if we have certain amount of domain knowledge, it might be better to engineer a more expressive reward function for better performance and faster training.

Unfortunately, reward engineering is often considered problematic in reinforcement learning community. We may come up with multiple options for possible reward functions if we have adequate domain knowledge, but the problem is in its decision stage: besides testing out all possible options, how should we determine which is the best choice? Moreover, reward functions that we engineered may not give us an optimal policy that we have thought of: we may get a side-effect which is known as the *cobra effect*. If the government, for instance, incentivize people to assist them in ridding the area of cobras by giving money in exchange of a killed snake, people will just start breeding venomous snakes! Same thing may happen in reinforcement learning, ending up with a policy that specifically suits the incentive we gave, not what we truly intended. 

However, considering that reward engineering is the process of injecting human/domain knowledge into the RL system, it might be reasonable to expect the system to monotonously improve as we hand out more hints: multiple hand-engineered reward functions. If have such a solution, we may at least get rid of the problem of deciding the reward to use: we may use multiple possible reward functions all at once for training. Fortunately, there are multiple literatures dealing with multiple-reward reinforcement learning (multi-reward RL), basically tackling the case where the value function for a given state is no longer a scalar, but a vector, each of its element corresponding to the expected cumulative rewards for different reward functions. 

Hybrid Reward Architecture (HRA), for instance, uses a  multi-output DQN to take the advantage of multiple rewards to facilitate the training and boost the performance. However, its original paper have mainly tested its effect on binary rewards based on multiple goals, not for multiple hand-engineered reward functions. Thus, for this project, I want to assess whether using multiple reward functions does improve the performance of RL system, and propose a proper solution to do so. To summarize, I will:


1. Assess the effect of various reward functions for various robot manipulation tasks in terms of success rate and convergence speed
2. Assess the effect of using multi-reward at once on robot arm manipulation task using various multi-reward RL algorithms
3. Develop an algorithm that suits robot-arm manipulation task with multiple reward functions 



## Baseline Experiments

First of all, I changed the 